look out snakes have two additional
senses that allow them to track their
prey
when such century organ is located in
the pit on the faces of pit vipers
pythons and Boas it can detect
warm-blooded creatures from a close
distance acting as an infrared scanner
another sense is provided by Jacobson's
organ all snakes have they quickly slip
their tongues out and back inside
gathering particles of scent and
femorals this way they can recognize not
only where the prey is now but even
which way it went
sharks have the most advanced tracking
system underwater electroreception they
have special organs called ampullae of
Lorenzini in their snouts it allows them
to catch weak electric impulses
generated by other living beings at
first scientists believed sharks could
only catch electric fields created by
muscle work and other creatures but then
they found out that even paralyze prey
will still be discovered and eaten the
weird-looking platypus though goes even
further its duckbill sends out
electrical signals and receive them back
working as well as the Sharks ampulla
but it can also feel the movement of
water around and react to any distress
in it the bill helps platypuses to
orient underwater easily because their
eyes and nostrils close shut when they
dive some deep sea dwellers have organs
that make them literally shine in the
dark
they're called photo spores light
bringers from the greek creatures like
angler fish use their bioluminescent
organs to lure prey and attract mates
they have one main photos for at the end
of an appendage on their head and dozens
of smaller ones on whisker like antennae
all over their body these biological
lights can even be of different colors
like those of a small tooth dragon fish
that has blue orange and red lights on
it's now bats and dolphins can navigate
using nothing but their ears
thanks to echolocation they can send out
sound waves and carefully listen to the
echo they create when reflected from
other objects this method is uncannily
accurate since bats for example can
dodge obstacles detected by their big
ears right on the fly at a really high
speed they even use this same method to
target their prey too precisely
calculating even the speed of its
movements vampire bats hunt with even
more skill they have a special protein
concentrated in their snout to sense the
temperature of their prey from a
distance when they feel they're above a
patch of skin of a warm-blooded animal
they unerringly land on the exact spot
where there's a good and throbbing vein
yumbo a good thing they actually don't
hunt humans I'm told bees see the world
in a very different way than we do
relying a lot on their sense of
ultraviolet light flowers do stand out
from the crowd even for us but viewed in
UV they have patterns designed
specifically for bees to see them at
once humans on the other hand have many
more than five senses that were used to
describe according to different
estimates we have from 22 to 33 of them
those include proprioception the sense
of our arms and legs relative to our
body nociception the ability to feel
pain kinesthesia the sense of movement
and many others that some animals don't
have like video ception the ability to
well you know although still unclear how
they do that many birds and fish such as
pigeons or salmon use the Earth's
magnetic field to their advantage
migratory species are especially good at
that
they can travel thousands of miles
literally from one end of the world to
the other without losing their way even
for a second their built-in compass
helps them navigate with absolute
precision the colorful mantis shrimp can
see billions more color shades than any
other living thing on earth with this
handy feature they can use polarized
light to send signals to other mantis
shrimps which can't be seen by any other
creature in the world it's like they
have their own secret language what's
more their claws are so powerful and hit
so hard that they can easily crack
seashells and even beat through the
glass of an aquarium
such incidents were recorded in the past
so they're not recommended as pets at
home pistol shrimp though have an even
more amazing power their right claw is
able to lock in a position that when
release creates a tiny sonic boom
underwater the bubble appearing after
the impact is so high it reaches the
temperature of the Sun surface pistol
shrimps use their striking claws to stun
the prey that's not even in direct
contact with a bubble when it bursts it
creates a shockwave that incapacitates
anything in close proximity unlike honey
bees bumble bees use electric charge to
sense nearby flowers and gather pollen
from them when they buzz they're busy
wings bumble bees generate a positive
charge while flowers have a negative one
by default when the bee lands on a
flower this difference between charges
makes pollen stick to the special hairs
on their bodies so they don't even need
any special bags to carry their cargo
other bumble bees can sense when their
friends have stopped to gather some
pollen which is why you never see two
bumble bees wallowing in one flower
octopuses look much differently from
what we've been picturing them because
their skin is covered in various
patterns invisible to the human eye they
take the cue from mantis shrimps and
that light polarization helps discern
these patterns and octopuses eyes can
easily see the polarized light
elephants can sense their kin from miles
away
by feeling the vibrations of the ground
by these inaudible signals for us humans
anyway they know a friend from a
stranger and can send messages
themselves if need be they also Rumble
and flap their ears to communicate
between each other something you can see
and sometimes feel but not here
roundworms
although ever so tiny can use the
Earth's magnetic field as well as the
best of them they have a single nerve
cell in their bodies that tells them
which way is up they need this function
to get back to the surface once they've
eaten enough since they burrowed deep in
the soil and vegetation in the hunt for
food spiders have an exoskeleton which
means their bones or what would
as for them are outside of their bodies
not inside this feature acts as a
natural suit of armor that not only
protects them from hazards but also it
allows them to have the sense of touch
the exoskeleton consists of numerous
plates without which spiders wouldn't be
able to move and the slits between those
plates allow them to feel pressure and
find their way around their prey and
mates when a slit becomes wider or
narrower they know they're being touched
most animals have an organ that's called
a pineal gland it helps them to tell the
difference between day and night but
they also use their eyes for that while
some ocean dwellers live so deep
underwater
there's eternal dark around them that's
why they don't need eyes just like a
stylus mexicanas it lost its eyes
entirely in the process of evolution but
also developed a semi-transparent body
as a result the tiny fractions of light
easily reach inside them getting
directly to the pineal gland and letting
them know there's a shelter nearby it's
darker under a rock than outside even at
a great depth catfish have probably the
most acute sense of taste of all animals
a cat fish's whole body is a giant
platform for taste cells they use it to
track their prey without using their
smell or even their eyes and when the
food is near those taste buds let the
fish know where exactly it is relative
to its body
[Music]